[Docs] 8.17 Release Highlights - What's New page (#203333)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/whats-new.asciidoc

[discrete]
=== Discover and ES|QL

[discrete]
==== Improving column reordering with draggable columns

We’re excited to announce an enhancement to the Discover table. You can now reorder columns by simply dragging them directly in the data table header. This intuitive feature reduces the number of interactions required to adjust your column layout by eliminating the need to open the Columns popover for sorting. This enhancement saves users valuable time and improves overall usability, leading to smoother and more efficient data exploration. 

image::https://images.contentstack.io/v3/assets/bltefdd0b53724fa2ce/blt6fa3a9ee893e5603/67533de0e995a041b8dea1d9/dragging-columns-in-discover.gif[Dragging a column to adjust column layout in Discover]

[discrete]
==== Starred ES|QL queries for quick access and reusability

> With this release, you can favorite your ES|QL queries directly from your query history by starring them. These starred queries are saved under a dedicated Starred tab, allowing you quick access to your most-used queries across Kibana – not just within Discover. With the ability to manage up to 100 starred queries per user, you can sort them by timestamp and receive warnings as you approach the limit. This enhancement utilizes the favorites service at the user level, enabling users to reuse ES|QL queries in other areas of Kibana, such as the dashboard in-line editor and alerts.

Reviewer: It looks great, I am just not sure about the mention on the favorite service. This is a kibana thing, is not something that the users know, right? So I am not sure I would mention it tbh

Author: That makes sense to me. I've updated the phrasing to exclude the service. Thank you for reviewing!

> With this release, you can favorite your ES|QL queries directly from your query history by starring them. These starred queries are saved under a dedicated Starred tab, allowing you quick access to your most-used queries across Kibana – not just within Discover. With the ability to manage up to 100 starred queries per user, you can sort them by timestamp and receive warnings as you approach the limit. This enhancement utilizes the favorites service at the user level, enabling users to reuse ES|QL queries in other areas of Kibana, such as the dashboard in-line editor and alerts.

Reviewer 2: > With this release, you can favorite your ES|QL queries directly from your query history by starring them. 

Is there a more common verb we ought to use here instead of "favorite"? e.g. bookmark?

Author: Good point. I've changed it to "bookmark"

> === Managing {kib} and data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Alerting, cases, and connectors
```
IMO it should match the title we used in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/8.15/whats-new.html#_alerting_cases_and_connectors

[discrete]

> ==== Kibana Alerting scalability improvements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Alerting scalability improvements
```

> The Kibana Alerting framework delivers enhanced scalability to meet the demands of growing workloads and is available across all Elastic Cloud-hosted deployments. These improvements will provide our customers with 10x the existing capacity to run task-manager tasks -- alerting rules, connector actions, etc. We are observing the following performance improvements on early adopters of the new Kibana Alerting framework:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kibana alerting framework delivers enhanced scalability to meet the demands of growing workloads and is available across all {ecloud} hosted deployments. These improvements will provide you with 10x the existing capacity to run task-manager tasks -- alerting rules, connector actions, etc. We are observing the following performance improvements on early adopters of the new Kibana alerting framework:  
```

** 10x reduction in alerting task delays
** 2x increase in task execution throughput on average
** 50% fewer requests to Elasticsearch, resulting in lower overhead

These customers are now enjoying higher alerting capacity and faster response times without the need for any additional configuration or hardware. Furthermore, these improvements also bring in a new unparalleled scalability for our largest alerting customers, enabling deployments of up to 192 Kibana nodes running alerting rules.

We are very excited to see how these enhancements empower your alerting strategies with faster, more efficient, and scalable performance.

[discrete]

> ==== Kibana Cases support for file attachments through API actions 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Support for case file attachments through API actions 
```

> The latest enhancements to Kibana Cases introduce highly requested functionality for managing security incidents and workflows. Users can now attach files to Kibana Cases via the public API, allowing them to enrich cases with supporting documentation, evidence, and other critical information. This improvement marks a significant enhancement in case management, providing incident response teams with greater flexibility to include all relevant details directly within their cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The latest enhancements to Kibana Cases introduce highly requested functionality for managing security incidents and workflows. You can now use the public API to attach files to cases to enrich them with supporting documentation, evidence, and other critical information. This improvement marks a significant enhancement in case management, providing incident response teams with greater flexibility to include all relevant details directly within their cases.
```

> Additionally, this release expands integration capabilities with third-party systems such as ServiceNow and Tines. Users can now programmatically update cases through API calls from external platforms, streamlining workflows and fostering seamless collaboration across tools. These features make it easier to automate case updates and efficiently track complex security incidents in real time. For more details, see the https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v8/operation/operation-createcasedefaultspace[API documentation].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, this release expands integration capabilities with third-party systems such as ServiceNow and Tines. You can now programmatically update cases through API calls from external platforms, streamlining workflows and fostering seamless collaboration across tools. These features make it easier to automate case updates and efficiently track complex security incidents in real time. For more details, check out the https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v8/operation/operation-createcasedefaultspace[API documentation].
```

[discrete]

> ==== Kibana Connector now supports Jira Data Center

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Jira connector now supports Jira Data Center
```
I will double-check but presume it's this specific connector that's changed.

Author: You're right!

> This release introduces Kibana Connector support for Jira Data Center, expanding the existing integration capabilities previously available only for Jira Cloud instances. With this enhancement, organizations using on-premises Jira Data Center can now seamlessly integrate with Kibana, enabling more efficient workflows and streamlined incident management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release introduces support for Jira Data Center, expanding the existing integration capabilities previously available only for Jira Cloud instances. With this enhancement, organizations using on-premises Jira Data Center can now seamlessly integrate with Kibana, enabling more efficient workflows and streamlined incident management.
```

Elastic Rerank is a cross-encoder architecture and it is in technical preview in 8.17. 

image::images/elastic-rerank.png[Diagram showing how document text is modeled for a cross encoder, width=90%]

To understand reranking and how you can use it to improve your search, read https://www.elastic.co/search-labs/blog/elastic-semantic-reranker-part-1[What is semantic reranking and how to use it], a blog by the creators of Elastic Rerank.

For more information on the Elastic Rerank model architecture and how it compares for relevance and cost against other reranking models, see https://www.elastic.co/search-labs/blog/elastic-semantic-reranker-part-2[Introducing Elastic Rerank] by the same authors.

[discrete]
==== Pre-configured default ELSER endpoint

> With this release, we are introducing a pre-configured default ELSER endpoint. This removes the need for any inference configuration in order to use ELSER. There is no more need for an inference endpoint setup or for downloading the model and configuring threads and allocations through the trained models UI. Simply create a https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/semantic-text.html[semantic text] mapping with your indices and start using. The default inference endpoint will download, deploy and start using ELSER for inference with https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/machine-learning/current/ml-nlp-auto-scale.html#nlp-model-adaptive-allocations[adaptive allocations] out of the box.

Reviewer 2: > Simply create a https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/semantic-text.html[semantic text] mapping with your indices and start using. 

I think a final word is needed here. Start using "it"?
